Add PHP log support to OpenTelemetry API documentation (#37007)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/opentelemetry/instrument/dd_sdks/api_support.mdoc.md

If you run Ruby 3.1 or 3.2, pin `opentelemetry-logs-sdk` to `~> 0.4`. Version 0.5.0 and later require Ruby 3.3 or later.
{% /alert %}
{% /if %}
{% if equals($prog_lang, "php") %}
- **Datadog SDK**: dd-trace-php version 1.20.0 or later.
- **OpenTelemetry PHP SDK**: Version 1.0.0 or later (`open-telemetry/sdk`).
- **OpenTelemetry OTLP Exporter**: The OTLP exporter package (`open-telemetry/exporter-otlp`).

> - **Monolog bridge** (optional, for PSR-3 / Monolog interoperability): `open-telemetry/opentelemetry-logger-monolog` version 1.0.0 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Monolog bridge** (optional, for PSR-3 and Monolog interoperability): `open-telemetry/opentelemetry-logger-monolog` version 1.0.0 or later.
```

    When enabled, `datadog` automatically detects the OTel packages and configures the OTLP logs exporter to send logs to your OTLP destination.
{% /if %}

{% if equals($prog_lang, "php") %}

> 1. Install the Datadog PHP SDK following the [official installation instructions][400].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Install the Datadog PHP SDK][400].
```

2. Install the required OpenTelemetry packages:
    ```sh
    composer require open-telemetry/sdk
    composer require open-telemetry/exporter-otlp
    ```
    To bridge a PSR-3 or Monolog logger to OTel logs, also install:
    ```sh
    composer require open-telemetry/opentelemetry-logger-monolog
    ```
3. Enable OTel logs export by setting the following environment variable:
    ```sh
    export DD_LOGS_OTEL_ENABLED=true
    ```

>     Alternatively, set it in your `php.ini`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Alternatively, enable OTel logs export in `php.ini`:
```

    export OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=none
    export OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER=none
    ```
    The OpenTelemetry SDK builds the `LoggerProvider` and registers it as the global instance.

    **Option B: Wire the `LoggerProvider` in code.** Build the provider during your application bootstrap and register it on the global SDK:
    ```php
    use OpenTelemetry\API\Globals;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Common\Attribute\Attributes;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Common\Instrumentation\InstrumentationScopeFactory;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Common\Time\ClockFactory;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Logs\ExporterFactory;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Logs\LoggerProvider;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Logs\Processor\BatchLogRecordProcessor;
    use OpenTelemetry\SDK\Sdk;

    $exporter = (new ExporterFactory())->create();
    $processor = new BatchLogRecordProcessor($exporter, ClockFactory::getDefault());
    $loggerProvider = new LoggerProvider($processor, new InstrumentationScopeFactory(Attributes::factory()));

    Sdk::builder()
        ->setLoggerProvider($loggerProvider)
        ->setAutoShutdown(true)
        ->buildAndRegisterGlobal();
    ```

> 5. If your Datadog Agent runs on a non-default location, configure the endpoint:

Reviewer 2: I don't follow this section - isn't the point that you don't need a Datadog Agent? Wouldn't you use `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_LOGS_ENDPOINT` to configure the endoint?

Reviewer 3: You can do that _too_.

But it's odd that this is mentioned here at all, other sections don't mention this in the first place.

Author: Agreed with Bob. I deleted the step to align with other sections.

```
{% /if %}

{% if equals($prog_lang, "php") %}
After the Datadog SDK is initialized, use the OpenTelemetry Logs API to get a logger and emit log records.

> ### Emitting a log {% #emitting-log-php %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Emit a log {% #emitting-log-php %}
```

```php
use OpenTelemetry\API\Globals;
use OpenTelemetry\API\Logs\LogRecord;
use OpenTelemetry\API\Logs\Severity;

// dd-trace-php automatically configures the LoggerProvider
$logger = Globals::loggerProvider()->getLogger('my-service', '1.0.0');

$record = (new LogRecord('User clicked the checkout button.'))
    ->setSeverityNumber(Severity::INFO)
    ->setSeverityText('INFO')
    ->setAttributes([
        'cart.id' => 'c-12345',
        'user.id' => 'u-54321',
    ]);

$logger->emit($record);
```

> ### Bridging Monolog to OTel logs {% #monolog-bridge-php %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Bridge Monolog to OTel logs {% #monolog-bridge-php %}
```

> To export logs written with Monolog through the OTel pipeline, attach the OpenTelemetry Monolog handler to your logger. The Datadog SDK detects this bridge and skips its standard `dd.*` injection on those loggers, because trace correlation is carried in the OTLP log record's dedicated `trace_id` and `span_id` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export logs written with Monolog through the OTel pipeline, attach the OpenTelemetry Monolog handler to your logger. When you attach this handler, the Datadog SDK skips its standard `dd.*` log injection on that logger. Trace correlation is instead carried in the OTLP log record's `trace_id` and `span_id` fields.
```

```php
use Monolog\Logger;
use OpenTelemetry\API\Globals;
use OpenTelemetry\Contrib\Logs\Monolog\Handler;

$loggerProvider = Globals::loggerProvider();
$handler = new Handler($loggerProvider, Logger::INFO);

$monolog = new Logger('my-service');
$monolog->pushHandler($handler);

$monolog->info('User clicked the checkout button.', [
    'cart.id' => 'c-12345',
    'user.id' => 'u-54321',
]);
```

Other Monolog handlers attached to the same logger continue to receive `dd.*` trace identifiers, so file or syslog output keeps its existing correlation behavior.

> ### Trace and log correlation {% #trace-log-correlation-php %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Correlate traces and logs {% #trace-log-correlation-php %}
```

> Trace and log correlation is automatic. When you emit a log using the OTel Logs API within an active Datadog trace, the `trace_id` and `span_id` are added to the log record. To create spans with the OpenTelemetry tracing API as shown below, also set `DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trace and log correlation is automatic. When you emit a log using the OTel Logs API within an active Datadog trace, the `trace_id` and `span_id` are added to the log record. To create spans with the OpenTelemetry tracing API, also set `DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED=true`.
```

The Datadog SDK programmatically configures the OTel SDK for you.
{% /if %}

{% if equals($prog_lang, "php") %}

> 1. Install the Datadog PHP SDK following the [official installation instructions][400].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Install the Datadog PHP SDK][400].
```

> 2. Remove any code that manually configures the OTLP logs endpoint. The Datadog SDK derives the endpoint from `DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL` or `DD_AGENT_HOST` and registers it with the OpenTelemetry SDK automatically.

Reviewer 2: Similarly with this, why would you want to set the endpoint via the `DD_` config?

Author: sorry that wording is confusing. It's been updated!

> 3. Set the `DD_LOGS_OTEL_ENABLED=true` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set `DD_LOGS_OTEL_ENABLED=true`.
```

- Verify you are using `OpenTelemetry.logger_provider`, not Ruby's stdlib `Logger` or `OpenTelemetry.logger`.
{% /if %}

{% if equals($prog_lang, "php") %}
- Verify OpenTelemetry SDK version. Version 1.0.0 or later is required.
- Verify `open-telemetry/exporter-otlp` is installed.
- Verify `DD_LOGS_OTEL_ENABLED=true` is set before your application starts.
- If `OpenTelemetry\API\Globals::loggerProvider()` returns a proxy or no-op provider, the global `LoggerProvider` was never registered. Either set `OTEL_PHP_AUTOLOAD_ENABLED=true` to use the OpenTelemetry SDK autoloader, or build a `LoggerProvider` in code and register it with `Sdk::builder()->setLoggerProvider(...)->buildAndRegisterGlobal()`.
- If `OTEL_PHP_AUTOLOAD_ENABLED=true` activates traces or metrics export you did not intend, set `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=none` and `OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER=none` to disable the unused signals.
- If your logs reach the destination but no trace correlation appears on a Monolog logger, confirm the OpenTelemetry Monolog handler is attached to that logger. Loggers without the handler still receive `dd.*` fields in their message context instead.

> - Enable debug logging with `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true` to see detailed logs.

Reviewer: The PHP troubleshooting block mixes prerequisite checks, conditional fixes, and a debug tip into one flat list, which makes it hard to scan. Consider consolidating:

```suggestion
- Verify that `open-telemetry/sdk` (1.0.0 or later) and `open-telemetry/exporter-otlp` are installed, and that `DD_LOGS_OTEL_ENABLED=true` is set before your application starts.
- If `OpenTelemetry\API\Globals::loggerProvider()` returns a no-op provider, the `LoggerProvider` was never registered. Set `OTEL_PHP_AUTOLOAD_ENABLED=true` or register it manually: `Sdk::builder()->setLoggerProvider(...)->buildAndRegisterGlobal()`.
- If `OTEL_PHP_AUTOLOAD_ENABLED=true` activates trace or metric exporters you didn't intend, set `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=none` and `OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER=none`.
- If logs arrive but Monolog entries lack trace correlation, confirm the OpenTelemetry Monolog handler is attached to that logger.
- For detailed debugging, set `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`.
```
